 
margin: 0 auto shifts the content in the container to the middle

Web design?
Web designers create the overall look and feel of a Websites
web developers implement the design using HTML, CSS and JavaScript code

WEB DESIGN INGREDIENTS?
Typography : formatting and designing text
colors:
Images/illustrations

Icons

Shadows

Border-radius

whitespace
Visual Hierrarchy
User Experience
Components/Layout



Website Personalities

1. Serious/Elegant: For luxury and elegance, based on thin serif typefaces, golden or pastel colors, and big high-quality Images
2. Minimalist/Simple: Focusses on the essential text content, usign small or medium-sized sans-seif black text,lines and
  few Images.
3.Plain/Neutral: Design that gets out of the way by using neutral and small typefaces, and a very structured layout, Common in big corporations
4.Bold/Confident: Makes an impact, by featuring big and bold typography, paired with confidence use of big and bright colored blocks
5.Calm/Peaceful: For products and services that care, transmitted by calming pastel colors, soft serif headings, and matching images/illustrations
6.Startup/Upbeat: Widely used in Startups, featuring medium-sized sans seif typefaces, light-grey text and backgrounds, and rounded element
7.Playful/Fun colorful and round designs, fueled by creative elements like hard-drawing icons or illustrations, animations

Rules in Web design

Typography?

Typography is the art and techniques of arranging type to make written language legible, readable and appealing when
displayed.

Typography is all about making text beautiful

Serif vs Sans-Serif typefaces

Serifs creates a traditional/classic look and feel, conveys trustworthiness, Good for long text
eg in an article or magazin.

note use google font Websites

Sans-serif typefaces
Modern look and feel, clean and simple Easier to choose for biginner designer


Rules

1.Use only good and popular typefaces and play it safe

SANS-Serif typefaces that can be used without any isssues
Inter, Open Sans Roboto, Montserrat, work Sans and Lato.
on google Fonts


2. use one typeface for design, limit to 2 typefaces
3. Choose the right typeface according to your website personality.

how to choose a good Font Sizes and Weights

-When choosing font-sizes, limit choices! Use a type scale tool or other pre-defined range.
-Use a font size between 16px and 32px for normal text
-For long text (like a blog post), try a size of 20px or even bigger
-For headlines, you can go really big 50px+ and bold (600+)
-For any text, dont use a font weight under or below  400


How to create a good Reading Experience
-Use less than 75 characters per line (65-72)

-For normal-sized text, use a line height between 1.5 and 2. for big text, go below 1.5
the smaller or the longer the text, the larger the line height needs to be.
headlines(1.2), 1.31 or 1.52 for long ones

-Decrease letter spacing in headlines, if it looks unatural(this will come from experience)
makes text natural.
-Experiment with all caps for short titles. Make them small and bold and decreases letter-spacing

-Usually, dont justify text
-Dont center long text blocks, Small blocks are fine (36:42 timestamp)

colors
-Make the main color match your website's personality: colors convey meaning
  a.Red draws a lot of attention, and symbolizes power, passion and excitement.
  b.Orange is less aggressive, and conveys happiness, cheerfulness, and creativity
  c.Yellow means joy, brightness, and intelligence
  d.Green represents harmoney, nature, groeth, and health
  e.Blue is associated with peace, trustworthiness, and professionalism
  f.Purple conveys wealth, wisdom, and magic
  g.Pink represents romance, care, and affection
  h.Brown is associated with nature, durability and confort
  i.Black symbolizes power, elegance,professionalism,but grief and sorrow.

 -Use a good color tone, dont choose a random tone or CSS named colors 
   use Tools like OC-Open color(https://yeun.github.io/open-color/), TailwindCSS, Flat Ui Colors 2,palleton.com, coolors,(contrast checker)
   tint and shades Generator
 - You need at least two types of colors in your color palette: a main color and a grey color
   use MAIN COLOR, SECONDARY AND GREY( for text): You will need some lighter and some darker version of these colors
 - For diversity, create lighter and darker versions(tints and shades)


When and How to Use Colors?

-Use your main color to draw attention to the most important elements on page.
-Use colors to add interesting accents or make entire components  or sections stand out from the page
-you can use your color strategically in images and illustrations

Relationship between Colors and Typography

-On dark colored backgrounds, try to use a tint of the background('lighter version') for text
- Text should usually not be completely black. Lighten it up it looks heavy an uninviting.
-Dont make text too light! Use a tool to check contrast between text and background colors
   use coolors to pick
   a.Contrast ratio needs to be at least 4.5:1 for normal text and 3:1 for large text(18px+)
   you can use 13:1, 5.1:1

   side note
   look at the pictures on your websites, check the color that fits and also what your website is representing to choose a color

   timestamp(1:16:57)



Images

1.Types of Images
-product photos,: They show products 
-storytelling photos,(very important)
-illustrations: abstract way to tell stories, 2d and 3d.
-patterns:

2. Use the above images to suuport your websites message and story, So use only relevant images.
  (let the message or purpose od your site sort the images, football site should have football players)

3.Prefer original images. If not possible, use original-looking stock images(not generic ones)
 use websites like Unsplash,Pexels Drawkit to get original free Images.


How to Use images well
-Try to show real people to trigger user's emotions
-if necessary, crop images to fit your message
-Experiment combining photos, illustrations and patterns

Handling Text on Images
-Method 1: Darker or brighten image(completely or partially, using a gradient)
-method 2: Position text into neutral images area
-       3: put text in a box


Some Technical details of using Images

-To account for high resolution screens for windows, Mac and Smart phone Mobile, make image dimension 2x as big as thier displayed size

  1.SCALE FACTOR: Actual pixels the screen contains/ Pixels represented on screen
  2. On high -res screens, scALE FACTOR IS 2X OR EVEN 3X, ON NORMAL SCREENS ITS JUST 1X(1 Physical pixel = 1 design pixel)

 -compress images for a lower/reduce file size and better performance with (Squoosh) for better performance
 -When using multiple images side-by-side, make sure they have the exact same dimensions


HOW USE ICON IN WEB DESIGN

--Use a good icon pack, there are tons of free and paid icons packs (get from Phosphor icons, heroicons ionicons ICONS8)
--Use only one icon pack. Dont mix icons from different icon packs
- Use SVG icons or icon fonts. Dont use bitmap image formats(.jpg and .png)
  .1 Regular images JPG, PNG AND GIF, they dont scale well.
  .2 SVG images and icon fonts scale indefinitely.
-- Adjust to website personality Roundness, weight and filled/outlined depend on typography.

When to use Icons

Use icons to provide visual assistance to text
Use icons for product feature blocks(Icon at the top, description at the bottom, use visual to give info about a certain product)
Use icons associated with actions, and label them, use icons like notification, profile with texts
Use them as bullet points 
s

How to use Icons well

--To keep icons neutral, use same color as text. To draw more attention, use different color.
-- Dont confuse your users: icons need to make sense and fit the text or action.
- dont make icons larger than what they were designed for. If needed enclose them in a shape.
   (make the icon smaller then, put a background shape enclosed to it)


Shadows
- After an era of 100% flat design, were now back to using shadows in UI design
Shadow creates depth (3D): the more shadow, the further away from the interface the element is

Shadow can be used on boxes amd text

How to use Shadows in Design
- You dont have to use shadows! Only use them if it makes sense for the website personality
-Use shadows in small doeses: dont add shadows to every elements
-Go light on shadows, dont make them too dark

When to use Shadows
-Use small shadows for smaller elements that should stand out(To draw attention)
-Use medium-sized shadows for larger areas that should stand out a bit more
(a whole section)
-Use large shadows for elements that should really float above the interface
(e.g pop up window, ) make them flaot above the rest 
-Experiment with changing shadows on mouse interaction(click and hover)
Bonus: Experiment with glows(colored shadows)


Border radius
-Use border-radius to increase the playfulness and fun of the design, to make it less Serious
-Typefaces have a certain roundnes: make sure that border-radius matches that Roundness
-Use border-radius on buttons, images, around icons, satandouts sections and other elements


WHITESPACE 

The space between elements
-The right amount of whitespace makes designs look clean, modern and polished
-Whitespace communicates how different pieces of information are related to one another
-Whitespace implies invisible relationships between the elements of a layout.

Where to use whitespace
-Use tons of whitespace between sections
-Use a lot of whitespace between groups of elements
-Use a lot of whitespace between elements
-Inside groups of elements,try to use whitespace instead of lines

How much whitespace to use
-The more some elements(or groups of elements) belong together, the closer they should be
-Start with a lot of whitespace, maybe even too much, then remove whitespace from there
 1.Too much whitespace looks detached, to little lookks crammed

 -match other design choices. if you have big text or big icons, you need more whitespace
 -Try a hard rule, such as using multiples of 16px for all spacing
 2px 4px 8px 12px 16px 24px 32px 48px 64px 80px 96px, 120px


 VISUAL HIERARCHY 

 Visual hierarchy is about establishing which elements of a design are the most important ones
 Visual hierarchy is about drawing attention to these most important elements
 Visual hierarchy is about defining a path for users, to guide them through the page
 We use a combination of position, size colors, spacing borders and shadows to establish a meaningful visual hierarchy between elements/components

 Visual hierarchy Fundamentals
-Position important elements closer to the top of the page, where they get more attention
-Use images mindfully, as they draw a lot of attention(Larger images get more attentions)
Whitespace creates seperation, so use whitespace strategically to emphasize elements


Visual Hierarchy for Text elements

-For text elements, use font size, font weight, color and whitespace to convey imprtance
  1.Increase font size, increase font weights, Lighting color of less important text
-What text elements to emphasize? Titles, sub-titles, links, buttons, data points(like prices or scores on the page), icons
 --You can also de-emphasize less important text, like labels or secondary/ additional information
 (timestamp 3:27:59)

 Visual Hierarchy between components
 emphasize an important component(or Area of text) using background color, shadow, or border(or multiple)
 Try emphasizing some component A over component B by de-emphasizing component B
 what components to emphasize? give importance to with catching colors, borders and shadows?
 -testimonials, call-tp-action sections, highlight sections, preview cards, forms, pricing tables, important rows/columns in tables
  



User Experience UX?
what is UI User interface

UI :this is the Visual representation of  a  product, its how the graphical interface looks and feels like
 1.Layout
 2.personality
 3.Typography, colors, icons etc

UX: This is the overall experience the user has while interacting with the product. (How it works)
    1.Does the app feel logical and well thought out?
    2.Does the navigation work intuitively?
    3.Are users reaching their goals?

    UI AND UX DESIGN?

    UI is graphical interface, Ui design is what makes an interface beautiful

    UX id experinece with interface UX Design is what makes an interface useful and functional.

    ux design Guiding Principle: goals

    A website or application exists for a reason: a user has a goal visiting it, and business has a goal for creating it.
    to fulfile
    
    UX Rules for Usability

    Dont design complicated layouts. Dont reinvent the wheel. Use patters that users Know.
    Make your call to action the most prominent element, and make the text descriptive.

    use blue text and underline text only for links
    Animations should have a purpose and be fast (200 or 500 ms)

    In forms, aligh labels and fields in a single vertical line, to make the form easier to Scan 
    Offer users good feedback for all actions: form erors, form success etc
    Place action buttons where they will create an effect (Law of locality)


    UX RULES FOR WEBSITE content
   
   Use a descriptive, keyword-focused headline on your main page. dont be fancy

   only include relevant information, efficienctly cut out fluff and make content 100% clear
   Use simple words Avoid technical jargon and smart sounding words
   Break up long text with sub-headings, images block quotes, bullet points, etc.


 Website Personalities framework 

 Website personality is the general feeling we want the website to transmit to our users
 Before built a website

 1. How do you want the website to appear to users? what vibe do you want to transmit.
 2. check the List of website Personalities you want convey to the user
 
 7 Personalities framework
 -SERIOUS/Elegant
 Design for luxury and elegance, based on thin serif typefaces, golden or pastel colors, and big high-quality images.

 -Industries used, Real estate, high fashion, jewelry, luxury products or services 

 (download all the files and study all the website) check out the elegant website 

 web design ingredients for Serious/Elegant 

 Typography : Serif typeface(especially in headings), light font weight, small body font size 

 Colors: Gold, pastel colors, black, dark blue or GREY

 Images: Big, high-quality images are used to feature elegant and expensive products

 Icons Usually no, icons, but thin icons and lines may be used.
 Shadows usually no shadows
 Border-Radius Usually no border-radius 

 Layout A creative and Experiment layout is quite Common



Personality 02; Minimalist/Simple

This type of websites focuse on the essential text content, using small or medium-sized sans-serif black text, lines and few images and icons 

Industries USED: Fashion, portfolios, minimalism companies, software startups.

Typography Boxy/squared sans-serif typeface, small body font sizes
colors: Usually black or dark grey, on pure white background, Usually just one color throughout the design

Images Few images, which can be used to add some color to the design, Usually no illustrations, but if than just black

icons Usually no icons, but small simples black may be used

shadows Usually no Shadows

Border-Radius Usually no border-radius 

Layout simple layout, a narrow one column layout is quite common 

PERSONALITY 03- Plain/Neutral 


This type of websites use designs that gets out of the way by using very neutral and small typefaces, and a boxy, structured, and condensed layout.

Industries USED: Well-established corporations, companies that dont want to makes an impact through design. eg Micro-solf


Typography Neutral-looking sans-serif typeface are used, and text is usually small and doesnot have visual impact

colors: Safe colors are employed, nothing too bright or two washed-out. Blues and blacks are Common

Images Images are frequnetly used, but usually in small format


icons Usually no icons, but small simples icons may be used

shadows Usually no Shadows

Border-Radius Usually no border-radius 

Layout Structured and condensed layout, with lots of boxes and rows




PERSONALITY 04- Bold/Confident


This type of websites use designs that makes an impact, by featuring big and bold, typography, paired
with confident use of big colored blocks

Industries USED: Digital agencies, software startups, travel strong companies 


Typography Box/squared sans-serif typefaces, big and bold typography, especially headings. Uppercase headings are common

colors: Usually multiple bright colors, Big color blocks/sections are used to drae attention

Images Lots of big images are usually displayed


icons Usually no icons

shadows Usually no Shadows

Border-Radius Usually no border-radius 

Layout All kinds of layouts, no particular tendencies





PERSONALITY 04- Calm/Confident


This type of websites use designs for products and services that care about the consumer, which is transmitted by calming pastel colors
and soft serif headings

Industries USED: Healthcare, all products with focus on consumer well-beign



Typography Soft serif typefaces frequently used for headings, but sans-serif headings might be used too(e.g for software products)
colors: Pastel/washed-out colors: light oranges,yellows, browns, greens, blues

Images Images and illustrations are usual, matching calm color palette



icons Icons are quite frequent

shadows Usually no Shadows,but might be used sparingly

Border-Radius Some border-radius is usual

Layout All kinds of layouts, no particular tendencies





PERSONALITY 06 Startup/Upbeat


This type of websites designs are Widely used in startups,featuring medium-sized sans-serif typeface, light-grey backgrounds and rounded elements


Industries USED: Software startups, and other modern-looking companies



Typography  Medium-sized headings(not too large),usually one sans-serif typeface in whole design. Tendency for lighter text colors

colors: Blues,greens and purples are widely used. lots of light backgrounds(mainly gray), gradients are also common
Images Images or illustrations are always used. 3D illustrations are modern. Sometimes patterns and shapes add visual details
Icons icons are very frequent 

shadows subtle shadows are frequent. Glows are becoming modern

Border-Radius  border-radius are common

Layout Rows of cards and Z-patterns are usual, as well as animations 




PERSONALITY 07 Playful/Fun


This type of websites designs are Colorful and round designs  fueled by creative elements like hand-drawn icons or illustrations, animations and fun language 


Industries USED: Child products, animal products, food



Typography  Round and creative (e.g handwritten) sans-serif typefaces are frequent. Center text is more common

colors:  Multiple colors are frequently used to design a colorful layout all over backgrounds and text

Images Images, hand-drawn (or 3D) illustrations, and geometric shapes and patterns are all very frequently used 
Icons Icons are very frequent, many times in a hand-drawn style

shadows Subtle shadows are quite common, but not always used


Border-Radius  border-radius are common

Layout All kinds of ,layouts, no particular tendencies 




icons Icons are quite frequent

shadows Usually no Shadows,but might be used sparingly

Border-Radius Some border-radius is usual

Layout All kinds of layouts, no particular tendencies




Avanced: combining playfulness and Boldness 
Boldness and calmness can be mixed 

Secret of great designs
steal like an artist 

consider 1 Design Ingredients, 2.Website Personalities 3.Design Guildlines and Rules 
4? getting inspired and stealing like an artist 
Not completely copying a design insted, its about taking good parts and adapting them to our needs.

sources of design Inspiration : Land-book.com, onepagelove.com, awwwards.com, screenlane.com, behance 

WEB DESIGN RULE  NUMBER 10

HOW A WEB PAGE IS DESIGNED FROM  SCRATCH 


-Elements every websites starts with an Elements 
1.like,button, images, input Elements Tags

-Compnents: put Elements together 
Breadcrumbs, pagination, Alert and status bars 
statistics, Gallery Feature box, preview and profile cards
Accordion, Tabs, carousel, customer testimonials, customer logos, featured-in logos, steps, forms, tables
Pricing Tables Modal windows 


Section components 

Navigation, Hero section, Footer, call-to-action section, Feature row 

- Layouts Combination of different  Components 

Row of boxes or cards, Grid of boxes or cards, z-pattern, single-column,
Sidebar, Multi-column/magazine
Asymmetry/Experimental


-Webpage combination of every elements above 


INSPIRATION ABOUT TEXT  check different websites 

2.Buttons 
3.images 
4.types of input Elements 
5.Tags 


components 

Breadcrums they give users instruction on what to do. e.g menu sports, football
Pagination 1,2,3 use them to navigate pages 
Alert and status Bars 
Galleries
Statistics 
Feature Box groups information about a product 
Preview and Profile cards 
Accordion, hide info in begining and display when the user clicks 
Tabs also hide info in the begining and show when click 

Caraousel, groups info, click on button on left or right it slides 
customer testimonial you will ask your customers their opinions
customer Logos 
featured-In Logos 
Steps, shows customers how the product work

Forms 

Tables 
Display tabular data
Pricing Tables 
Modal Windows allow user sign in 


Download the slides and study them 


5:23: 10









